[IMP] barcode: update transfers scratch doc (#6077)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/barcode/operations/transfers_scratch.rst

:doc:`Activate the Barcodes in Odoo
</applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/barcode/setup/software>` documentation pages.

Scan barcodes for internal transfers
====================================

To create and process internal transfers for products in a warehouse, the :guilabel:`Storage
Locations` feature must first be enabled. To do so, go to the :menuselection:`Inventory app -->
Configuration --> Settings`. Then, scroll down to the :guilabel:`Warehouse` section, and click the
checkbox next to :guilabel:`Storage Locations`. Then, click :guilabel:`Save` at the top of the page
to save changes.

Create an internal transfer
---------------------------

To process existing internal transfers, there first needs to be an internal transfer created, and an
operation to process.

To create an internal transfer, navigate to the :menuselection:`Inventory app`. From the
:guilabel:`Inventory Overview` dashboard, locate the :guilabel:`Internal Transfers` card, and click
on the :guilabel:`0 To Process` button. Then, click :guilabel:`Create` in the top left of the
resulting page. This navigates to a new :guilabel:`Internal Transfer` form.

> 

Author: The paragraph above this one says that and has instructions on how to enable it

   :alt: Barcode app start screen with scanner.

From this page, locate the :guilabel:`Internal Transfers` card, and click the :guilabel:`# To
Process` button to view all outstanding internal transfers. Then, select the desired operation to
process. This navigates to the barcode transfer screen.

.. note::
   If *only* using a barcode scanner or the Odoo mobile app, the barcodes for each transfer of a
   corresponding operation type can be scanned to be processed easily. Once scanned, the products
   that are part of an existing transfer can be scanned, and new products can be added to the
   transfer, as well. Once all products have been scanned, validate the transfer to proceed with the
   stock moves.

From this screen, an overview of all products to process within that specific internal transfer
(**WH/INT/000XX**) is shown. At the bottom of the screen, there are options to :guilabel:`Add
Product` or :guilabel:`Validate`, depending on if products need to be added to the operation, or if
the whole operation should be validated at once.

.. image:: transfers_scratch/transfers-scratch-receipts-overview.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Overview of receipts in transfer to scan.

> To process and scan each product individually, choose a specific product line. The :guilabel:`+#`

Reviewer: From this screen, we can either scan the barcode or use the buttons on the screen, like u detailed (:
```suggestion
Then, scan the barcode of the product to process the internal transfer.

Or, to process and scan each product individually, choose a specific product line. The :guilabel:`+#`
```

> To process and scan each product individually, choose a specific product line. The :guilabel:`+#`

Reviewer: > The :guilabel:`+#` button (in this case, :guilabel:`+1`)

When is the button *not* +1? I think I only recall it being +1 (needs confirmation!!) If so, I don't think it's necessary to use the more general and slightly more confusing "+#" and just say the +1 button

Author: Good catch, it is always +1

button (in this case, :guilabel:`+1`) can be clicked to add additional quantity of that product to
the transfer, or the :guilabel:`pencil icon` can be clicked to open a new screen to edit that
product line.

> From this screen, the product that's being transferred is listed. Under the product name, the

Reviewer: Trying to be very specific about which screen we're on
```suggestion
In the product's pop-up window, the product and the units to process is displayed with a num pad. Under the product name, the
```
(Also is there a more professional way to describe num pad? :sweat_smile:

:guilabel:`Quantity` line can be edited. Change the number in the line to the quantity listed to be
transferred on the internal transfer form.

.. example::
   In the internal transfer operation `WH/INT/000XX`, `50 Units` of the `Transfer Product` is

>    expected to be transferred. `[TRANSFER_PROD]` is the :guilabel:`Internal Reference` set on the

Reviewer: > expected to be transferred

Maybe we can use even more actionable language --> "to be moved from [source location] to [dest location]"
```suggestion
   moved from `WH/Stock` to `WH/Stock/Shelf 1`. `[TRANSFER_PROD]` is the :guilabel:`Internal Reference` set on the
```

   product form. Scan the barcode of the `Transfer Product` to receive one unit. Afterwards, click

>    the :guilabel:`pencil icon` to manually enter the transferred quantities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the :guilabel:`✏️ (pencil)`  icon to manually enter the transferred quantities.
```

   .. image:: transfers_scratch/transfers-scratch-product-line-editor.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Product line editor for individual transfer in Barcode app.

Additionally, the :guilabel:`+1` and :guilabel:`-1` buttons can be clicked to add or subtract
quantity of the product, and the :guilabel:`number keys` can be used to add quantity, as well.

Below the :guilabel:`number keys` are the two :guilabel:`location` lines, which read `WH/Stock` by

> default, or whichever locations were previously specified on the internal transfer form. Click these

Reviewer: > which read `WH/Stock` by default

Is incorrect, to my knowledge :astonished: 
The location is whatever the source location is on the Internal transfer form
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/07d7c350-003d-4086-b2d8-5a476bb40cc0)
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/e1c4d3e7-31ab-4776-895c-e152e10552e3)

Reviewer: I *think* you were trying to address the `WH/Stock` in the image, and I think the best way to directly refer to the WH/Stock source location is to explain that WH/Stock is the source location in an example admonition

Author: Good catch! Changed the wording here to explain that

> Below the :guilabel:`number keys` are the two :guilabel:`location` lines, which read `WH/Stock` by
> default, or whichever locations were previously specified on the internal transfer form. Click these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below the :guilabel:`number keys` are the two :guilabel:`location` lines, which display the source and destination locations previously specified on the internal transfer form. Click these
```

lines to reveal a drop-down menu of additional locations to choose from.

Once ready, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to confirm the changes made to the product line.

Then, from the overview page with all products to process within that transfer (**WH/INT/000XX**),
click :guilabel:`Validate`. The receipt has now been processed, and the :guilabel:`Barcode app` can
be closed out.

.. tip::
   The *Barcode* app can also be used to scan products in internal transfers containing unique lot
   numbers and serial numbers. From the barcode transfer screen, scan the barcode of a lot or serial
   number, and Odoo will automatically increase the quantity of the product to the quantity recorded
   in the database. If the same lot or serial number is shared between different products, scan the
   product barcode first, then the barcode of the lot/serial number.

Create a transfer from scratch
==============================

In addition to processing and scanning barcodes for existing, previously-created internal transfers,
the :guilabel:`Barcode app` can also be used to create transfers from scratch, simply by scanning a
printed operation type barcode.

> .. admonition:: Did you know?

Reviewer: Creative usage of a custom admonition block!!! :D

Author: Thank you!!

   Odoo's *Barcode* application provides demo data with barcodes to explore the features of the app.
   These can be used for testing purposes, and can be printed from the home screen of the app. To
   access this demo data, navigate to :menuselection:`Barcode app` and click :guilabel:`stock
   barcodes sheet` (bolded and highlighted in blue) in the information pop-up above the scanner.

   .. image:: transfers_scratch/transfers-scratch-demo-data.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Demo data prompt pop-up on Barcode app main screen.

> To do this, first navigate to the :menuselection:`Barcode app`. Once inside the :guilabel:`Barcode
> app`, a :guilabel:`Barcode Scanning` screen displaying different options is presented. From this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, first navigate to the :menuselection:`Barcode app`. Once inside the *Barcode*
app, a :guilabel:`Barcode Scanning` screen displaying different options is presented. From this
```

> screen, click the :guilabel:`Tap to Scan` button (next to the camera icon, at the center of the

Reviewer: *Warning*: I'm getting very nitpicky here :sweat_smile: 

Your current instruction is correct when the barcode scanner is the mobile phone (:
Wanted to add to this sentence that when we use a USB barcode scanner that's connected to the Odoo Barcode mobile app, the actual scanning is performed by the USB barcode scanner (like a zebra scanner)

```suggestion
screen, when using a USB or bluetooth barcode scanner, directly scan the product barcode. When using a smartphone as the barcode scanner, click the :guilabel:`Tap to Scan` button (next to the camera icon, at the center of the
```

If my suggestion is accepted, I'd also link to the doc about the [barcode scanner types](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/16.0/applications/inventory_and_mrp/barcode/setup/hardware.html) (also I'm improving this doc! :smile: ):

Author: Not nitpicky, that's an important point to add! And for linking to that page, I already did so at the top of the page. Do you think I should do it here again? And glad it's getting updated!

   barcodes sheet` (bolded and highlighted in blue) in the information pop-up above the scanner.

   .. image:: transfers_scratch/transfers-scratch-demo-data.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Demo data prompt pop-up on Barcode app main screen.

To do this, first navigate to the :menuselection:`Barcode app`. Once inside the *Barcode* app, a
:guilabel:`Barcode Scanning` screen displaying different options is presented. From this screen,
when using a USB or bluetooth barcode scanner, directly scan the product barcode. When using a
smartphone as the barcode scanner, click the :guilabel:`Tap to Scan` button (next to the camera
icon, at the center of the screen). This opens a :guilabel:`Barcode Scanner` pop-up screen that
enables the camera of the device being used.

Face the camera toward the printed operation type barcode to scan it. Doing so processes the
barcode, and navigates to a barcode transfer screen.

From this screen, an overview of all products to process within that specific internal transfer
(**WH/INT/000XX**) is shown. Since this is a new transfer created from scratch, however, there
should not be any products listed on the page.

> To add products, click the :guilabel:`Add Product` button at the bottom of the screen, and add the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add products, scan the product barcode or click the :guilabel:`Add Product` button at the bottom of the screen, and add the
```

products and product quantities that should be transferred. Once ready, click :guilabel:`Confirm`
to confirm the changes made to the product line.

> .. image:: transfers_scratch/transfers-scratch-blank-product-editor.png
>    :align: center
>    :alt: Blank product editor in scratch internal transfer.

Reviewer: This new screenshot is really informative! I think we can further add to it by explictly mentioning how we navigate to the page, and directly referencing the image and the fields on the screen in an example admonition block. Feel free to ignore part of my comment though, as you included the navigational steps in the above paragraphs. I tend to include navigational steps again in an admonition block, since I assume ppl skim and miss info. 

```suggestion
.. example::
   To create an internal transfer directly from the :menuselection:`Barcode app`, navigate to the
   :guilabel:`Barcode Scanning` dashboard, and click the :guilabel:`Operations` button, then the
   `Internal Transfers` card.

   Then, click the :guilabel:`New` button, which opens a window with the reference number for the
   internal transfer (in this case, it's `WH/INT/00006`) at the top of the page. To add a product
   manually, click the :guilabel:`+ Add Product` button.

   Doing so opens a window to fill out product information for the transfer. (Todo: bring attention
   to the required fields and how to fill them out. I think the required fields are
   :guilabel:`Product`, :guilabel:`Unit of Measure`, :guilabel:`Source Location` and
   :guilabel:`Destination Location`.

   .. image:: transfers_scratch/transfers-scratch-blank-product-editor.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Blank product editor in scratch internal transfer.
```
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/2c6c4993-0d98-46ad-8611-3c0cd7a613e9)

==========================================
Create and process transfers with barcodes
==========================================

The *Barcode* app can be used to process internal transfers for all types of products, including
transfers for products tracked using lots or serial numbers. Transfers can be created from scratch
in real time using an Odoo-compatible barcode scanner or the Odoo mobile app.

For a list of Odoo-compatible barcode mobile scanners and other hardware for the *Inventory* app,
refer to the `Odoo Inventory • Hardware page <https://www.odoo.com/app/inventory-hardware>`_.

Enable Barcode app
==================

To use the *Barcode* app to process transfers, it must be installed by enabling the feature from the
settings of the *Inventory* app.

To do so, go to the :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings`. Then, scroll down
to the :guilabel:`Barcode` section, and click the checkbox next to the :guilabel:`Barcode Scanner`
feature.

Once the checkbox is ticked, click :guilabel:`Save` at the top of the page to save changes.

> Once the page has refreshed, new options will be displayed under the :guilabel:`Barcode Scanner`
> feature: :guilabel:`Barcode Nomenclature` (with a corresponding drop-down menu), where either
> :guilabel:`Default Nomenclature` or :guilabel:`Default GS1 Nomenclature` can be selected. The
> nomenclature selected changes how scanners interpret barcodes in Odoo.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the page has refreshed, new options are displayed under the :guilabel:`Barcode Scanner`
feature: :guilabel:`Barcode Nomenclature` (with a corresponding drop-down menu), where either
:guilabel:`Default Nomenclature` or :guilabel:`Default GS1 Nomenclature` can be selected. The
nomenclature selected changes how scanners interpret barcodes in Odoo.
```

There is also a :guilabel:`Configure Product Barcodes` internal link arrow, and a set of
:guilabel:`Print` buttons for printing barcode commands and a barcode demo sheet.

.. image:: transfers_scratch/transfers-scratch-enabled-barcode-setting.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enabled Barcode feature in Inventory app settings.

For more on setting up and configuring the :guilabel:`Barcode` app, refer to the :doc:`Set up your
barcode scanner </applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/barcode/setup/hardware>` and
:doc:`Activate the Barcodes in Odoo
</applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/barcode/setup/software>` documentation pages.

Scan barcodes for internal transfers
====================================

> To create and process internal transfers for products in a warehouse, the :guilabel:`Storage
> Locations` and :guilabel:`Multi-Step Routes` features must first be enabled. To do so, go to the
> :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings`. Then, scroll down to the
> :guilabel:`Warehouse` section, and click the checkboxes next to :guilabel:`Storage Locations` and
> :guilabel:`Multi-Step Routes`. Then, click :guilabel:`Save` at the top of the page to save changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create and process internal transfers for products in a warehouse, the :guilabel:`Storage
Locations` and :guilabel:`Multi-Step Routes` features **must** be enabled.

To do so, go to the :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings`. Then, scroll down
to the :guilabel:`Warehouse` section, and click the checkboxes next to :guilabel:`Storage Locations`
and :guilabel:`Multi-Step Routes`.

Then, click :guilabel:`Save` at the top of the page to save changes.
```

> Create an internal transfer
> ---------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create internal transfer
------------------------
```

To process existing internal transfers, there first needs to be an internal transfer created, and an
operation to process.

To create an internal transfer, navigate to the :menuselection:`Inventory app`. From the
:guilabel:`Inventory Overview` dashboard, locate the :guilabel:`Internal Transfers` card, and click

> on the :guilabel:`0 To Process` button. Then, click :guilabel:`Create` in the top left of the
> resulting page. This navigates to a new :guilabel:`Internal Transfer` form.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
on the :guilabel:`0 To Process` button.

Then, click :guilabel:`Create` in the top left of the resulting page. This navigates to a new
:guilabel:`Internal Transfer` form.
```

On this blank form, the :guilabel:`Operation Type` is automatically listed as :guilabel:`Internal
Transfers`. Under that field, the :guilabel:`Source Location` and :guilabel:`Destination Location`
are set as :guilabel:`WH/Stock` by default, but can be changed to whichever locations the products
are being moved from, and moved to.

.. image:: transfers_scratch/transfers-scratch-internal-transfer-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Blank internal transfer form with source location and destination location.

Once the desired locations have been selected, products can be added to the transfer. On the
:guilabel:`Product` line under the :guilabel:`Products` tab, click :guilabel:`Add a product`, and
select the desired product(s) to add to the transfer.

Once ready, click :guilabel:`Save` at the top of the form to save the new internal transfer. Once
saved, click the :guilabel:`Detailed Operations` icon (four lines, at the far right of the
:guilabel:`Product` line) to open the :guilabel:`Detailed Operations` pop-up window.

.. image:: transfers_scratch/transfers-scratch-detailed-operations-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Internal transfer detailed operations pop-up window.

> From the pop-up, click :guilabel:`Add a line`. Then, in the :guilabel:`To` column, change the
> location from :guilabel:`WH/Stock` to a different location, where the products should be moved.
> Next, in the :guilabel:`Done` column, change the quantity to the desired quantity to transfer. Once
> ready, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to close out the pop-up window.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From the pop-up window, click :guilabel:`Add a line`.

Then, in the :guilabel:`To` column, change the location from :guilabel:`WH/Stock` to a different
location, where the products should be moved.

Next, in the :guilabel:`Done` column, change the quantity to the desired quantity to transfer. Once
ready, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to close out the pop-up window.
```

Scan barcodes for internal transfer
-----------------------------------

To process and scan barcodes for internal transfers, navigate to the :menuselection:`Barcode app`.

> Once inside the :guilabel:`Barcode app`, a :guilabel:`Barcode Scanning` screen displaying different
> options is presented. To process internal transfers, click on the :guilabel:`Operations` button at
> the bottom of the screen. This navigates to an :menuselection:`Operations` overview page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once inside the *Barcode* app, a :guilabel:`Barcode Scanning` screen displaying different options is
presented.

To process internal transfers, click on the :guilabel:`Operations` button at the bottom of the
screen. This navigates to an :guilabel:`Operations` overview page.
```

   moved from `WH/Stock` to `WH/Stock/Shelf 1`. `[TRANSFER_PROD]` is the :guilabel:`Internal
   Reference` set on the product form. Scan the barcode of the `Transfer Product` to receive one
   unit. Afterwards, click the :guilabel:`pencil icon` to manually enter the transferred quantities.

   .. image:: transfers_scratch/transfers-scratch-product-line-editor.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Product line editor for individual transfer in Barcode app.

Additionally, the :guilabel:`+1` and :guilabel:`-1` buttons can be clicked to add or subtract
quantity of the product, and the :guilabel:`number keys` can be used to add quantity, as well.

Below the :guilabel:`number keys` are the two :guilabel:`location` lines, which read whichever
locations were previously specified on the internal transfer form, in this case `WH/Stock` and
`WH/Stock/Shelf 1`. Click these lines to reveal a drop-down menu of additional locations to choose
from.

Once ready, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to confirm the changes made to the product line.

Then, from the overview page with all products to process within that transfer (**WH/INT/000XX**),

> click :guilabel:`Validate`. The receipt has now been processed, and the :guilabel:`Barcode app` can
> be closed out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
click :guilabel:`Validate`. The receipt has now been processed, and the *Barcode* app can be closed
out.
```

.. tip::
   The *Barcode* app can also be used to scan products in internal transfers containing unique lot
   numbers and serial numbers. From the barcode transfer screen, scan the barcode of a lot or serial
   number, and Odoo will automatically increase the quantity of the product to the quantity recorded
   in the database. If the same lot or serial number is shared between different products, scan the
   product barcode first, then the barcode of the lot/serial number.

Create a transfer from scratch
==============================

In addition to processing and scanning barcodes for existing, previously-created internal transfers,

> the :guilabel:`Barcode app` can also be used to create transfers from scratch, simply by scanning a
> printed operation type barcode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the *Barcode* app can also be used to create transfers from scratch, simply by scanning a printed
operation type barcode.
```

.. admonition:: Did you know?

   Odoo's *Barcode* application provides demo data with barcodes to explore the features of the app.
   These can be used for testing purposes, and can be printed from the home screen of the app. To
   access this demo data, navigate to the :menuselection:`Barcode app` and click :guilabel:`stock
   barcodes sheet` (bolded and highlighted in blue) in the information pop-up above the scanner.

   .. image:: transfers_scratch/transfers-scratch-demo-data.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Demo data prompt pop-up on Barcode app main screen.

> To do this, first navigate to the :menuselection:`Barcode app`. Once inside the *Barcode* app, a
> :guilabel:`Barcode Scanning` screen displaying different options is presented. From this screen,
> when using a USB or bluetooth barcode scanner, directly scan the product barcode. When using a
> smartphone as the barcode scanner, click the :guilabel:`Tap to Scan` button (next to the camera
> icon, at the center of the screen). This opens a :guilabel:`Barcode Scanner` pop-up screen that
> enables the camera of the device being used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do this, first navigate to the :menuselection:`Barcode app`. Once inside the *Barcode* app, a
:guilabel:`Barcode Scanning` screen displaying different options is presented.

From this screen, when using a USB or bluetooth barcode scanner, directly scan the product barcode.
When using a smartphone as the barcode scanner, click the :guilabel:`Tap to Scan` button (next to
the camera icon, at the center of the screen).

This opens a :guilabel:`Barcode Scanner` pop-up screen that enables the camera of the device being
used.
```

Face the camera toward the printed operation type barcode to scan it. Doing so processes the
barcode, and navigates to a barcode transfer screen.

From this screen, an overview of all products to process within that specific internal transfer
(**WH/INT/000XX**) is shown. Since this is a new transfer created from scratch, however, there
should not be any products listed on the page.

To add products, scan the product barcode. If the barcode is not available, manually enter the
product into the system by clicking the :guilabel:`Add Product` button at the bottom of the screen,

> and add the products and product quantities that should be transferred. Once ready, click
> :guilabel:`Confirm` to confirm the changes made to the product line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and add the products and product quantities that should be transferred.

Once ready, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to confirm the changes made to the product line.
```

.. image:: transfers_scratch/transfers-scratch-blank-product-editor.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Blank product editor in scratch internal transfer.

Then, from the overview page with all products to process within that transfer (**WH/INT/000XX**),

> click :guilabel:`Validate`. The internal transfer has now been processed, and the :guilabel:`Barcode
> app` can be closed out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
click :guilabel:`Validate`. The internal transfer has now been processed, and the *Barcode* app can
be closed out.
```
